README.md, before:

# blockchain-rs

Blockchain implementation on Rust

## So, what is this?
This is my first attempt at implementing a very basic blockchain in Rust. It uses simple vectors to store transactions in blocks, serializes to JSON, and uses a very simple algorithm which reminds a little of Bitcoin's hashcash, with SHA256 hashing.
It works under a REPL for testing the blockchain itself. The blockchain is locally saved by dumping it to a JSON file, then recovered on the next boot.

Please mind that I'm not actually paying attention to the shared asset -- here portrayed as currency --, only to the blockchain data structure and how it works, while I also take the chance to learn and try to code something in Rust.

This blockchain implementation is largely based on [this article from website HackerNoon](https://hackernoon.com/learn-blockchains-by-building-one-117428612f46), however, I've rewritten it in Rust in the way I could. Plus, since I couldn't rely on Flask, I tried to take the multithreaded approach with a CLI interface of sorts, and manually handling HTTP requests from another thread.

## Compile
Since this is a Rust program, you'll find no difficulty building it if you have Cargo installed.

Please notice that, due to `reqwest`/`rust-ssl` requirements, you'll need OpenSSL's headers installed on order to compile.

```bash
cd /path/to/folder
cargo build
```

You can also use `cargo run` to execute the program directly.

## Usage
The program itself works as a node for the blockchain, and spawns two concurrent processes, in which one of them is used to handle the blockchain, while the other one handles remote HTTP requests.

Run the program from your favorite console. Here are some useful command line options:

```
 -h | --help       Shows help prompt, then exit.
 --port=XXXX       Uses port XXXX as HTTP port, instead of 3000.
```

Once the program runs, you'll be greeted with a prompt, awaiting input. There, you can use the following commands on the prompt:

```
help                -- Shows help prompt.
mine                -- [TO-DO] Mines a new block and rewards local node.
mine ID             -- Mines a new block and rewards ID for it.
save                -- Saves blockchain to blockchain.json.
save FILE           -- Saves blockchain to FILE.
print               -- Dumps blockchain to console as indented JSON.
dump                -- [TO-DO] Show blockchain statistics.
node register ADDR  -- Registers an address of format https://127.0.0.1:3000 as a node.
node new            -- Generates a new local identifier.
node alias ALIAS ID -- Registers ALIAS as an alias for identifier ID.
node show           -- Shows registered aliases.
node save           -- Saves aliases to aliases.json.
node save FILE      -- Saves aliases to FILE.
send VAL DEST       -- [TO-DO] Sends a value VAL from a local identifier to DEST.
send VAL SRC DEST   -- [TO-DO] Sends a value VAL from SRC to DEST.
resolve             -- Scans through all registered nodes and resolves chain conflicts.
quit/exit           -- Closes program, saving the blockchain and aliases to default files.
```

Please note that the REPL commands above are still subject to change.

## Other relevant links
I did not follow those, but they might be a source for consulting soon, since I want to improve this implementation.
- [Build Your Own Blockchain](http://ecomunsing.com/build-your-own-blockchain)
- [A Blockchain in 200 Lines of Code](https://medium.com/@lhartikk/a-blockchain-in-200-lines-of-code-963cc1cc0e54)
- [Mastering Blockchain, a Packt eBook. (It was free when I got this link!)](https://www.packtpub.com/packt/offers/free-learning)


## License
This program uses the MIT License. Check the file `LICENSE` for details.

## Copyright
(c) 2017 Lucas Vieira

Commit message:

Changes related to addresses and addition of wallets.
- Added implementation for a basic wallet system;
- Alias and wallet operations finally ripped out of node operations;
- Mining without specifying an address defaults to 1st address of
  wallet;
- Nodes are now stored on a HashSet and have been reduced to a simple
  set of strings;
- You are now unable to create a new node (this doesn't even make any
  sense -- your computer is the node, you just provide its IP);
- Wallets are saved to their own file, and their balance is calculated
  in a naive way (by depth, and tries to avoid more overhead by saving
  the last verified block's index;
- Wallet's balance calculation now only requires the chain itself, not
  the whole blockchain.

README.md, after:

# blockchain-rs

Blockchain implementation on Rust

## So, what is this?
This is my first attempt at implementing a very basic blockchain in Rust. It uses simple vectors to store transactions in blocks, serializes to JSON, and uses a very simple algorithm which reminds a little of Bitcoin's hashcash, with SHA256 hashing.
It works under a REPL for testing the blockchain itself. The blockchain is locally saved by dumping it to a JSON file, then recovered on the next boot.

Please mind that I'm not actually paying attention to the shared asset -- here portrayed as currency --, only to the blockchain data structure and how it works, while I also take the chance to learn and try to code something in Rust.

This blockchain implementation is largely based on [this article from website HackerNoon](https://hackernoon.com/learn-blockchains-by-building-one-117428612f46), however, I've rewritten it in Rust in the way I could. Plus, since I couldn't rely on Flask, I tried to take the multithreaded approach with a CLI interface of sorts, and manually handling HTTP requests from another thread.

## Compile
Since this is a Rust program, you'll find no difficulty building it if you have Cargo installed.

Please notice that, due to `reqwest`/`rust-ssl` requirements, you'll need OpenSSL's headers installed on order to compile.

```bash
cd /path/to/folder
cargo build
```

You can also use `cargo run` to execute the program directly.

## Usage
The program itself works as a node for the blockchain, and spawns two concurrent processes, in which one of them is used to handle the blockchain, while the other one handles remote HTTP requests.

Run the program from your favorite console. Here are some useful command line options:

```
 -h | --help       Shows help prompt, then exit.
 --port=XXXX       Uses port XXXX as HTTP port, instead of 3000.
```

Once the program runs, you'll be greeted with a prompt, awaiting input. There, you can use the following commands on the prompt:

```
help                 -- Shows help prompt.
mine                 -- Mines a new block and rewards local node.
mine ID              -- Mines a new block and rewards ID for it.
save                 -- Saves blockchain to blockchain.json.
save FILE            -- Saves blockchain to FILE.
print                -- Dumps blockchain to console as indented JSON.
dump                 -- [TO-DO] Show blockchain statistics.
alias reg ALIAS ADDR -- Registers ALIAS as an alias for identifier ID.
alias show           -- Shows registered aliases.
alias save           -- Saves aliases to aliases.json.
alias save FILE      -- Saves aliases to FILE.
node reg ADDR        -- Registers an address of format https://127.0.0.1:3000 as a node.
node del ADDR        -- [TO-DO] Deletes an address from nodes.
node show            -- [TO-DO] Shows registered nodes.
send VAL DEST        -- [TO-DO] Sends a value VAL from a local identifier to DEST.
send VAL SRC DEST    -- [TO-DO] Sends a value VAL from SRC to DEST.
resolve              -- Scans through all registered nodes and resolves chain conflicts.
wallet new           -- [TO-DO] Creates a new wallet.
wallet load FILE     -- [TO-DO] Loads wallet saved on FILE.
wallet save          -- Saves loaded wallet to wallet.json.
wallet save FILE     -- Saves loaded wallet to FILE.
wallet show          -- Shows addresses of loaded wallet.
wallet balance       -- Processes blockchain and shows balance for currently loaded wallet.
quit/exit            -- Closes program, saving the blockchain and aliases to default files.
```

Please note that the REPL commands above are still subject to change.

## Other relevant links
I did not follow those, but they might be a source for consulting soon, since I want to improve this implementation.
- [Build Your Own Blockchain](http://ecomunsing.com/build-your-own-blockchain)
- [A Blockchain in 200 Lines of Code](https://medium.com/@lhartikk/a-blockchain-in-200-lines-of-code-963cc1cc0e54)
- [Mastering Blockchain, a Packt eBook. (It was free when I got this link!)](https://www.packtpub.com/packt/offers/free-learning)


## License
This program uses the MIT License. Check the file `LICENSE` for details.

## Copyright
(c) 2017 Lucas Vieira
